.Dd August 26, 2018
.Dt PTOP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ptop
.Nd display sorted information about processes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" FIXME: Other man pages don't need to use \p to break lines here,
.\" and use the Nm macro for the command name. Why can't we?
.Ic ptop [ --debug ]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
periodically displays a sorted list of system processes.
Processes are sorted with the highest CPU users at the top.
CPU usage is measured from when
.Nm
was started, to make the list stabilize over time.
.Pp
The top screen line shows you the system load.
The number tells you how many processes want to run right now, check
.Xr getloadavg 3
for details.
.Pp
The histogram shows you how system load has evolved over the last
fifteen minutes.
The current system load is at the right of the histogram.
.Pp
The green / yellow / red bar shows you the current system load in
relation to the number of cores on the system.
Green means load on physical cores, yellow means load on logical
cores, and red means that the system load is higher than the number
of cores available on the system.
.Pp
To exit
.Nm ,
press
.Ql q .
.Pp
With the
.Fl -debug
flag, extra log messages are sometimes printed after
.Nm
finishes.
.Sh PROCESS NAMING
.Nm
tries to be helpful about naming processes, and avoid printing names
of various VMs.
.Pp
For example, if you do
.Ql java -jar foo.jar ,
.Nm
will show this process as
.Ql foo.jar
rather than
.Ql java .
.Pp
.Nm
parses command lines from:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Java
.It
Python
.It
Node
.It
Ruby
.It
Various shells
.It
Perl
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr px 1 ,
.Xr pxtree 1 ,
.Xr top 1
.Sh HOMEPAGE
.Nm
lives at http://github.com/walles/px
