.Dd August 24, 2018
.Dt PX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm px
.Nd list running processes and show process metadata
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" FIXME: Other man pages don't need to use \p to break lines here,
.\" and use the Nm macro for the command name. Why can't we?
.Ic px [ --debug ] \p
.Ic px [ --debug ] Ar filter\p
.Ic px [ --debug ] Ar PID
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility lists processes running on the system, to the standard
output.
If stdout is a terminal, output will be truncated at
terminal window width.
.Pp
Without any arguments,
.Nm
lists all processes on the system.
.Pp
If you specify a
.Ar filter
the output will contain only processes matching that filter.
.Pp
The
.Ar filter
can be a user name or part of a command line. For example,
.Ql px java
will list all Java processes, and
.Ql px root
will list all of root's processes.
.Pp
Running
.Nm
.Ar PID
will show you information about a given process:
.Bl -bullet
.It
The process tree; parents and children
.It
Start time, run time and CPU usage
.It
List of other processes started around the same time as this one
.It
List of users logged in when the process was started
.It
Where stdin, stdout and stderr is pointing
.It
Network connections
.It
IPC connections (sockets, pipes and local network connections) and
which processes are at the other end of those
.El
.Sh PROCESS NAMING
.Nm
tries to be helpful about naming processes, and avoid printing names
of various VMs.
.Pp
For example, if you do
.Ql java -jar foo.jar ,
.Nm
will show this process as
.Ql foo.jar
rather than
.Ql java .
.Pp
.Nm
parses command lines from:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Java
.It
Python
.It
Node
.It
Ruby
.It
Various shells
.It
Perl
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ptop 1 ,
.Xr pxtree 1
.Sh HOMEPAGE
.Nm
lives at http://github.com/walles/px
